invoke.mdx: re-written and expanded (#289)
statelyai/docs: docs/invoke.mdx

```ts
import { createMachine, createActor, fromPromise, assign } from 'xstate'

const fetchUser = (userId: string) =>
  fetch(`https://example.com/${userId}`).then((response) => response.text());

const userMachine = createMachine({
  types: {} as {
    context: {
      userId: string,
      user: object | undefined,
      error: unknown
    }
  },
  id: 'user',
  initial: 'idle',
  context: {
    userId: '42',
    user: undefined,
    error: undefined
  },
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        FETCH: { target: 'loading' }
      }
    },
    loading: {
      // highlight-start
      invoke: {
        id: 'getUser',
        src: fromPromise(({ input }) => fetchUser(input.userId)),
        input: ({ context: { userId } }) => ({ userId }),
        onDone: {
          target: 'success',
          actions: assign({ user: ({ event }) => event.output })
        },
        onError: {
          target: 'failure',
          actions: assign({ error: ({ event }) => event.data })
        }
      }
      // highlight-end
    },
    success: {},
    failure: {
      on: {
        RETRY: { target: 'loading' }
      }
    }
  }
});
```

> Actors can also be invoked on the _root_ of the machine, where they will last the lifetime of the machine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actors can also be invoked on the _root_ of the machine, and they will be active for the lifetime of its parent machine actor:
```

const interactiveMachine = createMachine({
  // highlight-start
  invoke: {
    src: fromEventObservable(
      () => fromEvent(document.body, 'click') as Subscribable<EventObject>
    )
  },
  // highlight-end
  on: {
    click: {
      actions: ({ event }) => console.log(event)
    }
  }
});
```

And `invoke` can be an array, to invoke multiple actors:

```ts
const vitalsWorkflow = createMachine({
  states: {
    CheckVitals: {
      // highlight-start
      invoke: [
        { src: 'checkTirePressure' },
        { src: 'checkOilPressure' },
        { src: 'checkCoolantLevel' },
        { src: 'checkBattery' }
      ]
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
})

See [Multiple Actors](#multiple-actors) for more.
```

For further examples, see:
- [Reusing function and event definitions workflow](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/next/examples/workflow-reusing-functions/main.ts)
- [Check inbox periodically (cron-based workflow)](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/next/examples/workflow-check-inbox/main.ts)
- [Car vitals checks (SubFlow Repeat) workflow](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate/tree/next/examples/workflow-car-vitals)

## How are Actors Different From Actions?

> Actions are “fire-and-forget”; as soon as their execution starts, the statechart running the actions forgets about them. If you specify an action as `async`, **the action won’t be awaited before moving to the next state**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions are “fire-and-forget”; as soon as their execution starts, the state machine running the actions forgets about them. If you specify an action as `async`, **the action won’t be awaited before moving to the next state**.
```

Author: Can we define _zero-time_ here? Might not be a familiar term to beginners? Maybe something like: 

> Remember: transitions are always _zero-time_ (states transition synchronously).

Reviewer: Yes, good idea

> Invoked actors can do asynchronous work _and_ communicate with their parent machine. They they can send and receive events. Invoked machine actors can even invoke or spawn their own child actors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoked actors can do asynchronous work _and_ communicate with their parent machine actor. They they can send and receive events. Invoked machine actors can even invoke or spawn their own child actors.
```

Unlike actions, errors thrown by invoked actors can be handled directly:

```ts
invoke: {
  src: 'fetchUser',
  // highlight-start
  onError: {
    target: 'failure',
    actions: assign({ error: ({ event }) => event.data })
  }
  // highlight-end
}
```

Whereas errors thrown by actions can only be handled globally by a subscriber of their parent state machine:

```ts
actor.subscribe({
  error: (err) => { ... }
})
```

## Lifecycle

> Invoked actors have a lifecycle that is managed by the parent machine. They are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoked actors have a lifecycle that is managed by the state they are invoked in. They are created and started when the state is entered, and stopped when the state is exited.

If a state is entered and then immediately exited, e.g. due to an eventless ("always") transition, then no actors will be invoked on that state.
```

- [Transition function logic (`fromTransition`)](actors.mdx#fromtransition), which follows the reducer pattern
- [Observable logic (`fromObservable`)](actors.mdx#fromobservable), which can send events to the parent machine, and where invoke will take an `onDone` transition when completed
- [Event observable logic (`fromEventObservable`)](actors.mdx#fromeventobservable), like Observable logic but for streams of event objects
- [Callback logic (`fromCallback`)](actors.mdx#fromcallback), which can send events to and receive events from the parent machine

The invoke `src` can be _inline_ or _provided_.

#### Inline `src`

Either directly inline:

```ts
invoke: {
  src: fromPromise(…)
}
```

Or from some logic in the same scope as the machine:

```ts
const logic = fromPromise(…)
const machine = createMachine({
  // …
  invoke: {
    src: logic
  }
});
```

#### Provided `src`

The `src` can be [provided in the machine implementation](machines.mdx#providing-implementations) and referenced using a string or an object.

```ts
const machine = createMachine({
  // …
  invoke: {
    src: 'workflow' // string reference
  }
});

const actor = createActor(machine.provide({
  actors: {

>     workflow: fromPromise(…) // provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    workflow: fromPromise(/* ... */) // provided
```

  }
}));
```

### `onDone`

- Transitions when invoked actor is complete
- Event object `output` property is provided with actor's output data
- Not available for callback actors

:::warning
Don't get the `onDone` property on a state confused with `invoke.onDone` - they are similar transitions, but refer to different things.

- The `onDone` property on a [state](states.mdx) node refers to the compound state node reaching a [final state](final-states.mdx).
- The `invoke.onDone` property refers to the invocation (`invoke.src`) being done.

> ```js {5,13}
> // ...
> loading: {
>   invoke: {
>     src: someSrc,
>     onDone: {/* ... */} // refers to `someSrc` being done
>   },
>   initial: 'loadFoo',
>   states: {
>     loadFoo: {/* ... */},
>     loadBar: {/* ... */},
>     loadingComplete: { type: 'final' }
>   },
>   onDone: 'loaded' // refers to 'loading.loadingComplete' being reached
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
// ...
loading: {
  invoke: {
    src: someSrc,
    // refers to `someSrc` being done
    // highlight-next-line
    onDone: {/* ... */}
  },
  initial: 'loadFoo',
  states: {
    loadFoo: {/* ... */},
    loadBar: {/* ... */},
    loadingComplete: { type: 'final' }
  },
  // refers to 'loading.loadingComplete' being reached
  // highlight-next-line
  onDone: { target: 'loaded' }
}
```

  { type: 'pong' }
)
```

In the following example, the `'client'` machine below sends the `'CODE'` event to the invoked `'auth-server'` service, which then responds with a `'TOKEN'` event after 1 second.

```js
import { createActor, createMachine, sendTo } from 'xstate';

const authServerMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'server',
  initial: 'waitingForCode',
  states: {
    waitingForCode: {
      on: {
        CODE: {
          // highlight-start
          actions: sendTo(
            ({ event }) => event.sender,
            { type: 'TOKEN' },
            { delay: 1000 }
          )
          // highlight-end
        }
      }
    }
  }
});

const authClientMachine = createMachine({
  id: 'client',
  initial: 'idle',
  states: {
    idle: {
      on: {
        AUTH: { target: 'authorizing' }
      }
    },
    authorizing: {
      invoke: {
        id: 'auth-server',
        src: authServerMachine
      },
      // highlight-start
      entry: sendTo(
        'auth-server',
        ({ self }) => ({ type: 'CODE', sender: self })),
      // highlight-end
      on: {
        TOKEN: { target: 'authorized' }
      }
    },
    authorized: {
      type: 'final'
    }
  }
});
```

> That specific example could be simplified by using the `sendParent(...)` action creator for the same effect. But by using `sendTo` the actors do not strictly need to be in a direct parent-child relationship to communicate.

Reviewer: Yes

Note that by default `sendTo` will send events anonymously, in which case the reciever will not know the source of the event.

:::note
In XState v4, the `respond(...)` action creator was used for this purpose. In XState v5, use `sendTo(...)` instead.
:::

## Multiple Actors

You can invoke multiple actors by specifying each in an array:

```ts
invoke: [
  { id: 'actor1', src: 'someActor' },
  { id: 'actor2', src: 'someActor' },
  { id: 'logActor', src: 'logActor' }
]
```

Each invocation will create a new instance of that actor, so even if the `src` of multiple actors are the same (e.g., `someActor` above), multiple instances of `someActor` will be invoked.

## Testing

_Coming soon_

## Referencing Invoked Actors

> Actors can be read on `snapshot.children.<actorId>[index]`. The returned value is an `ActorRef` object, with properties like:

Author: Is there a better way to describe that `snapshot.children.<actorId>` will be an array? Wasn't sure how to word this.

Author: Got it. Will fix.

I think I got confused by the string names from a prior XState beta version (was `checkcarvitals.DoCarVitalChecks[0]` vs `0.checkcarvitals.DoCarVitalChecks` or something)
